[THEME MUSIC]
>>REGINA MEREDITH:
We've all played
with plenty of divination
tools in our journey
to seeking life's truth.
For some, it's Tarot,
numerology, astrology.
But there is also perhaps
a lesser-known but no less
powerful system
called human design.
Today we're speaking with
Dirk Nellens, a practitioner
of the art that was
brought into the world
by a man named Ra in
an eight-day download.
And I think his story, which I
first heard about 20 years ago,
I thought, how did
this even happen?
[BOTH CHUCKLE]
And it's interesting, because
there is a video of Ra.
What is the-- what's
the whole name?
>>DIRK NELLENS: Ra Uru Hu.
>>REGINA: Yeah, Ra Uru Hu.
There's a video
of him on YouTube
that has him sitting outside,
talking about his own journey.
And he starts out
by saying-- and he's
a very compelling figure,
like a prophet presence,
you know what I mean?
>>NELLENS: Mm-hmm.
>>REGINA: It draws people in
with a very certain and slow
way he speaks, and
the notion he says,
well, I think we
could say this started
as a journey of madness.
You know?
[CHUCKLES]
So let's go ahead
and introduce people
who don't know about
human design to Ra--
how it came into existence,
who started playing with it,
if it was just something
that made sense to people,
or it was really hard to
get their minds around.
Because it's so complex.
>>NELLENS: One of the
interesting things in that--
it's basically a documentary
of his experience
of how human design
came into the world--
is that he states human
design stands by itself.
And it doesn't need any
explanation necessarily
of where it came from.
But I owe it to the
source of the knowledge
to let you know how this
story came into existence.
>>REGINA: Yes, that's very true.
Because it seems
to draw on a lot
of different kind of ancient
understandings and systems.
But yet it's own system.
>>NELLENS: Yeah, there was a
friend of mine who used to say,
if he would have
said, like, listen,
I was somewhere in my garage,
and I pulled a Kabbalah
together with some genetics,
and some I'Ching, and this
and that, and here you are,
here's the human design system,
it would probably have
had much more impact.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
[CHUCKLES]
>>NELLENS: But the
story is very different.
Like he said, he had
a mystical encounter
that lasted for eight days and
was actually very unpleasant.
>>REGINA: Yes.
And disturbing.
He was trying to push it away.
We should set up-- he
was living like a hermit.
>>NELLENS: Yeah.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
In a 300-year-old cottage,
and not eating food.
I mean, this will
make people delirious,
but it also separates us
enough from our reality
that we can be open to these
things, which he was very open.
>>NELLENS: Mm-hmm.
Like, OK, the experience as
such that brought human design
into the world is astonishing.
It's very weird.
There was a lot of--
it was actually very precise
and scientific information
that he had to live
with for about 10 years
without it being
acknowledged as truth.
So human design is based
on the mass of neutrinos
or the existence of
a magnetic monopole,
or there being stars in the
universe that are actually
older than the universe itself.
There was all kind of weird
scientific information
that was, like, hm, this thing--
like, where does this come from?
What is this?
>>REGINA: Right.
>>NELLENS: 10 years later,
science starts discovering
that neutrinos have mass.
There's a university
somewhere in Finland
that is working on the existence
of a magnetic monopole.
So all these scientific
aspects of design,
they are substantiated over
time, which obviously gave him
a huge amount of relief.
He basically took off--
he had a hat that was, I
think, from Northern India
or Tibetan origin.
And he took it off the
day that they discovered
the mass of neutrinos.
>>REGINA: Because he felt
acknowledged in the world,
or why?
>>NELLENS: Because he felt
acknowledged in his own process
in a way.
He was, in the end,
a very detailed and--
yeah, a very detailed man.
He was really looking into
the depths of everything.
And he wasn't necessarily
comfortable by the fact
that human design
would just be esoteric.
It isn't.
>>REGINA: So he was very ordered
toward visual impressions.
So he would have been
easy to work with.
If you're going to give
a download to someone--
well, see a human
design chart, I mean,
he would probably
be someone that
could be worked with because
the visual capacity within him.
>>NELLENS: Yeah, and the
intelligence that he says.
>>REGINA: And
intelligence, yeah.
>>NELLENS: Yeah, for sure.
>>REGINA: So, OK, so eight
days, this stuff just
starts pouring into him.
He was like, stop it.
What's going on?
It continues and continues.
When did it assemble itself into
a system that could actually
be utilized?
Did that happen
right away, or did--
>>NELLENS: No.
No.
From what I know
and what he shared,
was that he needed
several years--
I think up to seven, he
said, like of basically
recovering from the--
>>REGINA: The trauma
of the experience.
>>NELLENS: Yes.
So in those years,
he was continuing
to study stuff for himself, or
continuing to channel and write
things down.
The whole "Rave I'Ching" was
written down in that period.
And he started to put it out
in the beginning of the '90s,
I think '92 or '93,
somewhere over there,
to people in Ibiza
that were pulling it
out of him basically.
>>REGINA: Mm-hmm.
OK, so by the time I
found out about it,
it was probably 2001 in Sedona.
There was a pretty
large community
of people that had
intersected and worked closely
with Ra at the time
that ended up in Sedona.
>>NELLENS: Yes.
He also ended up in Sedona.
>>REGINA: I never met him.
>>NELLENS: No, yeah.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
Sorry I didn't get to meet him.
He seemed like a really
pretty interesting character.
So I was exposed to it then.
And one thing that
struck me about it
was that, first of all, I sensed
an odd kind of logic in it,
but I also related to the
kind of basic typology.
You have to really
understand it to get down
into the details,
and the pathways,
and the gates and everything.
But as I heard my friends
read each other and such,
I thought, well,
you know, this seems
to be a little more
functionally useful
than a lot of the other
sources of divination.
>>NELLENS: The thing
is, like I come
from a background in
social anthropology,
and in social
anthropology, they use
lenses to look at what
it is to be human beings.
And these lenses, they evolve.
150 years ago, the lens
that anthropology used
was very Darwinian-influenced.
Those people from
those countries
who don't eat with
a fork and a knife,
they're somewhere down
the evolutionary track.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>NELLENS: These lenses in
anthropology, they evolved.
When I left my
studies in the '90s,
we were looking at
cognitive anthropology.
So cognitive
anthropology is saying,
all this human diversity
that is out there,
all this diversity in
social-cultural expression,
economical expression,
religious expression,
kinship-oriented expressions,
is that limited or unlimited?
>>REGINA: Is that
limited or unlimited?
>>NELLENS: Yes, is there
a limitation to it,
or is there no limitation to it?
And the answer seems
like it's both.
So what they started
looking at is, cognitively,
what is it that somehow
we are all born with?
And they start discovering
that it doesn't matter
what kind of country, or
society, or culture a kid
comes from, around the age of
2, the kid goes, this is mine.
They all do it.
And then the parent says,
listen, oh, well, it's mine,
or it's ours, or
it's from whoever.
Those energetic mechanisms,
if they weren't in us,
in our cognition, there would
be no economical expression
on Earth.
So we are starting to
find, slowly, slowly,
what you hear
nowadays quite a lot--
actually, by a lot of people
who come and see you--
is humans, we are
hardwired in a certain way.
Like Brené Brown, for example,
says we're hardwired to belong.
The thing is, you don't
really understand--
most people don't really
understand how that hardwiring
to belong operates.
Most of us, we think it's a
matter of trying to fit in,
and all the consequences
that come out of that,
a lot of suffering.
And when you look
at human design,
the weird thing about
it from the perspective
of an anthropologist is
that you all of a sudden
have the full layout
of how we human beings
are energetically hardwired and
how that hard wiring operates.
>>REGINA: What its
detriments and its potentials
are embedded in it.
>>NELLENS: Well-- yes.
>>REGINA: And no.
[CHUCKLES]
>>NELLENS: It depends, in a
way, of how we go about it.
Like, one of the things that
is clear from what Ra mentioned
is that, in contrast to so many
other revelations that humanity
received, human design
is an information
that God revealed from what
he called the design crystal
bundle that resides
in the Earth.
So human design
information is basically
Mother Earth talking to us
and saying, like, listen guys,
the way that I
work inside of you,
the way that you are
wired in my intelligence,
it looks like this,
and it works like this.
And obviously he
wasn't as experience
with his dog called Barley.
And it was the
presence of his dog
that made him wonder, OK,
what the hell is going on
with my dog?
And this intelligence
started revealing to him
how other life forms
are energetically
wired within the intelligence
of Mother Nature.
So you'll get all kinds
of energetic matrices
depending on the genetic form
that we are dealing with.
When we're looking
at a human design,
we're looking at a body graph.
It has nine centers, 36
channels, and all this stuff.
When you're looking at a mammal,
it's different than insect,
it's different than fowl,
fish, all these things.
>>REGINA: Were all of
those were different--
>>NELLENS: All of those
matrices were revealed.
>>REGINA: Oh, interesting.
>>NELLENS: And what is
basically going on with the way
that we go about it
is, like, nowadays I
think one of the things
that is so actual today is
living ecologically.
But from a human
design perspective,
living ecologically is
basically like surrendering
to the intelligence of
Mother Nature inside of you.
And as you say, there
is a detrimental way
of going about it and a
positive way of going about it.
And that's actually
what it is about.
It's looking at a chart.
And a chart gives you a
map, and shows you, OK, here
is the intelligence
of life inside of you.
We know that, for hundreds
of thousands of years,
there is a strength conditioning
of approaching life mentally,
and that approaching
life mentally
is rather harsh, with
all the consequences
that come out of it.
There's so much--
survival-oriented approach
of life brings about all
kinds of chemistry that
ain't necessarily
loving to who we are.
And when you look at a
chart, you're looking at, OK,
what is this
intelligence for me?
What is Mother Nature's
intelligence in me
that I can basically
surrender to and let my mind
observe what it is to be alive.
So human design is a tool
that is primarily there
to nurture the intelligence
of a person's life spark
and the possibility
for that person,
whether it's, you,
me, or anybody else,
to develop a witnessing
consciousness,
to basically be in awe of
what it is to be alive.
When I started seeing this from
an anthropological perspective,
that, listen, we're all sharing
the same hardwiring, all of us.
It doesn't matter whether you
come from a jungle somewhere,
or from China, or
from Belgium like me.
We're all sharing
the same hardwiring.
We're just going about
it in different ways--
individually,
socially, culturally.
We're just giving different
expressions to this hardwiring.
Why is there so much judgment
on ourselves or on others
about how they go about life?
There is no good way or
bad way of going about it.
There's just giving
an expression
to a universal
energetic hardwiring.
>>REGINA: Yes.
OK, so that would immediately
bring up the notion
that those cultures
that tended to skew more
and more toward mind moved
further away from the Earth
matrix relationship.
Those cultures who are
indigenous, for example,
may not have strayed as far.
And yet there's their own
belief, their own conditioning,
their own historical
perspective and experience
that may not have
wandered as far
from their basic
interdependence with the Earth
and understanding we're
from the same impulse.
So maybe they retained more of
that natural kind of behavior
as a result. As
an anthropologist,
do you notice that?
>>NELLENS: Yes, I think
there is a truth in there.
But there is also something
to observe in a way.
And that is that there
is tribal energy.
Like when you are
living in a tribe,
you are living in a certain
confined energetic structure.
>>REGINA: Absolutely, with
all the beliefs and history.
>>NELLENS: The moment you start
moving into the collective,
there is an expansion
of consciousness
that is taking place.
But at the same time
there is a potential loss
also of cohesion and
a certain something
that holds in place when
the structure is smaller.
And in the hardwiring
of design of a chart,
you can see, OK, we're
hardwired tribally.
So we're hardwired to
belong, as Brené Brown says.
And it has a certain
operating system.
And we're hardwired to share.
And that's collective.
We're sharing a certain
abstract frequency.
Like we all have a
certain history in common.
We all have certain
desires in common.
We all want to ride a bicycle
in some way or another.
So there's a whole
collectivity that is
built on sharing abstract life.
And then there's a whole
aspect to sharing logic.
I mean, we're making
an appointment
to be here at a certain
time, the bus comes on time,
and all this kind of stuff.
And then we're also hardwired
to empower ourselves.
So there is all kinds
of hardwiring within us
that when you are talking about
just from a tribal perspective,
for example, those who
are really individual,
they don't necessarily
thrive so well
within all kinds of tribes.
There are certain
tribes that are more
acknowledging an individual,
and there's other tribes that--
here, we all get the
tools, and that's it then.
OK, well.
>>REGINA: Right.
So I see what you're saying,
the yes and no of that.
So when you were first
exposed to it, what made sense
to you immediately,
what struck as truth,
and what drew you in, to
the point where you really
decided to devote yourself
to the understanding
and practicing of it?
>>NELLENS: Yeah,
what struck as truth
for me was it was clear that
anthropology, cognitively,
is looking, and
searching, and building
this universal
energetic hardwiring.
We are hardwired.
That's for sure.
>>REGINA: And so is
this the first system
that look like it actually
tapped into the understanding
of that hardwiring?
>>NELLENS: Not necessarily.
It was the first
system that gave you
the full-blown hardwiring.
>>REGINA: The full-blown-- OK.
>>NELLENS: Like anthropology
was already discovering that
we're all sensitive to gravity,
that we're all sensitive
to possessiveness, that
there's all kinds of--
but when you're looking
at a human design chart,
you are basically seeing,
in all of those channels,
you're seeing all the
different life forces
that we need in order to
have a human experience.
That's what you see.
I mean, if some alien would drop
down in front of me and ask me,
like, Dirk, what is it to
be in your genetic material,
I could just sum up those
36 different channels.
Just saying, like, this
thing is sensitive.
It emotes.
It procreates.
It builds community.
It transforms.
It judges.
Its thinks logically,
abstractly, all kinds of stuff.
And that's all in
those channels.
It's very basic in a way.
And then you get to see,
OK, how are you hardwired?
Like how are you anchored
within this hardwiring,
and how am I anchored
with it, and anybody
else for that matter,
so that we can basically
see what kind of life forces
we are emanating in life
and what kind of life
forces we are receptive to.
>>REGINA: Because in
a given incarnation,
you may come to specifically
express, or follow, and develop
certain attributes of
yourself and your character
and being as opposed
to another time.
So there is a time and kind
of a rhyme and reason to it
as well, on a soul level.
You're not necessarily
here to express all things
at all times.
And it's interesting, when
you look at these charts,
you're the one that's
the most unique of the--
most rare of the
charts, which we're
going to get into now
because I want people to see
what it is we're talking about.
And first I think we
should break it down
into kind of the big,
bit-size pieces, the chunks,
such as the most
common chart, which
would be the generator, right?
>>NELLENS: Mm-hmm.
>>REGINA: Just by
numbers, percentage.
So let's talk about
the generator,
manifesting generator, projector
manifestor, and reflector,
which you are, which is
like, what, less than 1%
of the population or so?
>>NELLENS: Yeah, maybe a
little bit over a percentage.
>>REGINA: Yeah, a little
bit of percentage.
And look at what your chart
looks like versus someone
else's.
And then you talked
to my producer.
She gave you the data.
You read my chart--
a couple of them, apparently.
So we're going to
see what that is.
But also we're going to run a
couple other famous people--
Amy Winehouse, and we'll see
if we have time for others--
and see what uniquely expresses,
what the power is of expression
through each of these people.
So you can explain a little bit.
Because really you have
to read a book or two,
and you have to
go to someone that
knows what they're doing to
understand what all this means.
It's quite detailed.
So let's start with the big
pieces, generators, which
is what percentage of society?
>>NELLENS: There is about 70%
of generators on this planet.
It's important to me,
though, to make clear
that human design is really not
about putting anybody in a box.
>>REGINA: No, I understand that.
It's actually quite expansive.
But we'll start by
putting it in a box.
[CHUCKLES]
>>NELLENS: Yeah, but it's
like taking a blood sample
and recognizing that, OK, we
all have different samples,
but there's still
A, B, AB, and O.
>>REGINA: Absolutely,
and combinations thereof.
>>NELLENS: And
that's what it is.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>NELLENS: So generators--
the life force of a generator
is expressing itself
through response.
We are all here.
They have a defined
sacral center.
70% of humanity has
energy emanating
from the physical space
between their navel
and their sexual organs.
There's the hara.
And they are emanating
energy from there.
So they're basically built
to find satisfaction in life.
Most people on Earth are
here to be satisfied,
to love being alive.
>>REGINA: Yes, indeed.
So it would make sense 70% of us
would be wired that way, right?
>>NELLENS: Yes.
The thing is, how does
the mechanism work?
>>REGINA: Well, you just said a
really important word earlier.
Because I watched a friend of
mine who studied human design.
And it turns out you
ran into it in Ibiza.
I watched his journey
with this, and learning
to respond versus having
his head tell him what to do
and being confused all the time.
But to learn to respond--
you said they respond to life.
>>NELLENS: I think it's about--
from my perspective,
it's learning
to acknowledge that your
life force responds or not.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>NELLENS: That life-- it's a
description of our life force.
It's just saying, listen, you
have a responsive life force.
So your life force is, at
some point, it's like--
[MUTTERING ENTHUSIASTICALLY]
>>REGINA: Or no.
>>NELLENS: Or they're going--
[MUTTERING HESITANTLY]
The thing is, while your
life force is saying--
[MUTTERING ENTHUSIASTICALLY]
--you mind is
saying, no, maybe I
shouldn't do that because
I have something to pay,
or a job to preserve,
or whatever.
And when your life is
saying, like, unh-unh,
there is a mind coming
in and going like, yeah,
but still, OK, I'll try.
I'll do all this and that.
And then you bump into
a resistance field
that, for generators, is
described as frustration.
>>REGINA: Right.
Well, I remember it
used to drive me crazy
when I was growing up, learning
about all this, saying,
ask me if I want to, like, have
this for breakfast-- whatever.
It was kind of self-indulgent.
Ask me if I want to
have this for breakfast.
I don't know what to have.
Do you want to have
x for breakfast?
Unh-unh.
OK.
And he said, OK,
I don't want that.
And he was going through in a
very, like, kindergarten sort
of way.
But he was trying to practice
feeling what he really
was versus what his mind
was telling him habitually
he should do, and
eat, and so forth.
>>NELLENS: Yeah, good for him.
>>REGINA: Yeah, good for him.
It was interesting.
But I was always the one
asking him questions-- uh huh,
unh-unh, uh huh, unh-unh.
[CHUCKLES]
And this is kind of one
of a playful journey
that people can
go through to see
what they really
do or don't want
on this really primitive level.
So it was useful.
>>NELLENS: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
It's nice to see what-- like
this is the way life works
inside of a generator.
So if you can acknowledge
it, it's like, oh, wow,
Mother Nature
wants this from me?
OK, I'll go with her.
>>REGINA: Yeah, yeah.
>>NELLENS: Much better
than going with one's mind.
>>REGINA: Yeah, absolutely.
So that's kind of fun.
So if you're a
generator and you're
sensing this
frustration, then that's
a little tool you can work with.
Have someone bounce it
off you-- do I really
want to go to that concert?
Yeah, yes.
And you'll know.
But sometimes having that--
so that's just a tool.
So let's talk about--
would you say manifesting
generators next?
>>NELLENS: Yeah, manifesting
generators and generators
have both similar intelligence
in that sense, in their sacral.
The thing is, manifesting
generators are,
in some way or another, faster.
There is an outlet
to the throat.
So there is a possibility of
bringing the energy straight
into--
the responsive energy can go
all the way to manifestation.
But the law of nature
is still the same.
It's like, listen to your--
listen, see, acknowledge
the response inside of you.
They're similar in a way.
The intelligence in
there is the same.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
>>REGINA: What are the nuances
of how it might express itself
differently?
>>NELLENS: They're
faster in a way.
>>REGINA: Faster to respond
and to pick up on what it is.
>>NELLENS: --and put stuff out.
>>REGINA: Yeah,
and put stuff out.
Because we're going to
get to manifestors too.
>>NELLENS: And then the
thing is like, if it's really
a clear response
for them, they don't
have any trouble in
pulling a couple of steps
back and moving forward again.
It's enjoyable for
them to go fast,
to go back, to be there, to
(SINGSONG) da da da da da da da
da da.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
OK, so let's go to projectors.
>>NELLENS: Projectors are
about 20% of humanity.
Projectors are really good
at one-on-one situations.
They have an energy
field that penetrates
the being of another.
They're very good at reading,
what are people about.
They're very concerned about
the life force of another.
And they find their success
in life, their feel-good,
in a way, in that
alliance with the other,
bringing about something
fruitful for the other.
It's really like, oh, great.
You know, I'm happy
for you that I can
make a difference in your life.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>NELLENS: And that life
force that is naturally
inclined in focusing
on another and reading
another is very good at feeling
out whether that person is
actually in their vitality.
Like is this really accentuating
this person's vitality,
or am I just getting
dull and bored here?
And that's their natural gift.
And each projector
has a specific energy,
like a life force that they
look through at the other.
Like yours, for
example, is looking
at what is the particular
individuality of this person
here?
What kind of insightful
thing is this person
going to bring about?
And if I can help that person to
bring that insightfulness out,
then there is also a possibility
in some way or another
to set something new
in motion in life,
and something new in motion that
we can share and feel connected
by, and that connects us.
And your deepest
wisdom, for example,
has to do with looking at, OK,
what are the things in life,
what are the things
in human beings
that will bring about
progress on this plane?
>>REGINA: Yeah.
That's true.
That's my experience, yeah.
That's probably why I
do this for a living.
>>NELLENS: It's a very
good setting for you.
>>REGINA: It is.
>>NELLENS: It's a very good
one-on-one projector setting.
And this deep concern for
others is sometimes also not
necessarily easy for them.
Because they easily see
what could go wrong,
what could be bad.
They're concerned.
Now, their guidance
can fall on deaf ears
and create a certain
resistance field in the other
if they don't let it out through
feeling that the other is
available for them.
>>REGINA: True.
When I would learn new
things, I was so excited.
When something I thought
had real value to it,
I couldn't wait to share.
[CHUCKLES]
I always wanted to
share new things,
bring it back to the tribe--
the family, my friends.
And I couldn't wait to share.
And a lot of times there
would be, hey, you know,
I'd be overwhelming people--
too much information,
not ready for that,
and there would become this
kind of resistance, exactly
what you're talking about.
And really it wasn't
till I started doing this
about 15 years ago that
I realized, you know,
people can find their way.
If I want to share
something, they
can find their way
and resonate or not,
I don't need to be proselytizing
this to other people.
So I stopped.
So I don't really share
much personally with people,
unless they're a very
close friend, anymore,
for that very reason
of resistance.
Here, people come
voluntarily to learn
whatever it is we're
going to be talking about.
And that's perfect-- feels
like the perfect setup.
>>NELLENS: Yeah, that's what
they call an invitation,
in design, for projectors.
An invitation basically
means that you
have an inherent intelligence
inside of your life spark
that recognizes whether
the energy of the other
is available to what you
have to share or not.
>>REGINA: And if we're
not paying attention,
you're just boring everyone
and having them flee.
[BOTH LAUGH]
So now we go to manifestors.
>>NELLENS: Yeah, manifestors
are about 8% to 9%
of the population.
And manifestors, they are
a part of the doing family.
They're energetically inclined
to do and be impactful.
>>REGINA: They're going
to get things done.
>>NELLENS: Well--
>>REGINA: They're interesting.
>>NELLENS: --generators
are going to get--
>>REGINA: --things done too.
>>NELLENS: The thing
is, manifestors--
>>REGINA: Why do the
manifestors in my life
seem so much more focused
and strong in their will
to get things done?
>>NELLENS: Because their energy
field is, in some way or other,
pushing yours aside.
>>REGINA: Oh, OK.
Well maybe that's why you
feel the presence of it.
>>NELLENS: So they're
designed to have an impact.
Ra was a manifestor.
So you have this
person there that
is basically informing
about something
that needs to be put out.
And they have something
in their life force
that knows how to
push through that.
And it says, like, please,
I have something to do here.
I have something
to put out here.
So move away.
>>REGINA: Yeah, the manifestors
I know get things done.
They have a plan, and
they execute it well.
And I'm always amazed.
It's like, she'll do it.
She says she's going
to do it, she'll do it.
>>NELLENS: There is
an energetic motor
that is directly
connected to the throat.
So there is this necessity
to bring something out.
And it's impactful.
And sometimes it's
very strange to see
how far that impact can range.
Wow.
>>REGINA: Right.
We're going to look
at some other charts
and see what's right here too.
>>NELLENS: In design,
for example, we were--
in the Ibiza meetings,
when Ra was still alive,
there was about 100 people.
And that was a very,
very successful event.
If I start googling
now and seeing
who is interested
in design, there's
thousands and thousands.
>>REGINA: Oh, yeah, yeah.
>>NELLENS: So that's the
impact of a manifestor.
>>REGINA: But we have to
remember, it's not astrology,
numerology, et cetera.
It's not tarot.
It's new.
It's still being introduced.
Any other thoughts on
manifestos before we
go to that the most
rare and unusual--
I don't even know
how you function,
actually-- one
called the reflector.
>>NELLENS: I don't think so.
>>REGINA: OK, so let's go to
the reflector, which is about 1%
of the population.
>>NELLENS: So reflectors,
they have no defined center.
There's no consistent life
force in the reflector.
So it's always changing.
So reflectors are specifically
designed, actually,
to experience experience.
So they're basically here to
go through an experience--
>>REGINA: To experiment.
>>NELLENS: To sample
the experience
and then reflect on it, and
get something out of it,
bounce something
back in that sense.
I mean, I was rather astonished
in a way that when I saw
my chart, I was like,
that's why I'm--
that's why I studied
anthropology.
I mean, being an
anthropologist, in a way,
is a perfect expression
of being a reflector.
You go for the experience,
you live with a tribe,
you sample all kinds of
stuff, and you reflect on it.
And you give something
back in that sense.
So reflectors have
a sampling aura.
Basically every single person
that they hang out with
is an experiential
feel for them.
For me, it's an experience
to hang out with you.
To go through-- to see
what this energy is.
>>REGINA: Yeah, yeah.
Well, and we're
going to look at that
and see what that looks like in
a chart and how it plays out.
I'm going to ask you this--
this is so ABC kindergarten,
but let's just do it.
You would call a generator
if you need what?
Why would you call
on a generator.
>>NELLENS: I would call on a
generator to build something.
>>REGINA: OK.
Get in, do it, create it.
>>NELLENS: Build it.
>>REGINA: Build it.
>>NELLENS: Building is like, day
in, day out, day in, day out,
there is energy to do
something, to build something.
>>REGINA: OK.
Similar with a
manifesting generator.
Then we go to projectors.
What would you call
on a projector for?
>>NELLENS: It depends
on a projector.
I would call on you, for
example, for efficiency,
and for helping to go through
an experience in a connected way
so that it can bring
about progress.
>>REGINA: OK.
And what about your manifestor?
>>NELLENS: I wouldn't
call upon a manifestor.
I would be impacted
by something that
comes out of the manifestor.
>>REGINA: OK, so you'd wait
to see what they come up with,
and how it impacts you
or could impact you.
>>NELLENS: If I'm an
artist, for example,
and I walk into
Frida Kahlo's studio,
I'm like, what the hell is this?
Like, wow.
>>REGINA: OK, and now
what about a reflector?
What would you call
it a reflector for?
>>NELLENS: A reflector can tell
you something about the group
dynamic that's going on.
And when it's on a
one-on-one relation,
the reflector is
good at sensing--
fine-tuning a person's energy.
There's something about it.
>>REGINA: Because they're
connected into it.
They're experiencing it.
>>NELLENS: All the other types,
at some level or another,
they're all caught up with
their minds in their openness.
But a reflector's
design is all open.
So it's easy for us to sense
the difference of a person.
I'm always immediately
attracted to, wow,
this is really unique about you.
This is incredible about you.
But you don't see it.
You're caught up in your mind.
>>REGINA: That's a
wonderful trait to have.
Because people need to have
their genius in their beauty
reflected back to
them, especially
at these times when people are
so in their heads and confused.
>>NELLENS: Every child needs it.
>>REGINA: Every child needs it.
Every adult child needs it.
[BOTH CHUCKLE]
Well, do you feel
comfortable that we can
go ahead and dive into a chart?
And let's see-- let's go
back one chart to your chart,
to see what a reflector
chart looks like.
[INAUDIBLE]
Surprise.
Nothing there.
>>NELLENS: They're the
easiest chart to recognize.
>>REGINA: Meaning none of these
power centers of their being
and their nature, their
Earth-connected matrix,
is defined.
And so these centers are
either defined or undefined.
And yours are all
open and undefined
as you were just speaking of.
So that's what it looks like.
Now let's go to my chart.
And now we see how
mine is defined.
And maybe you can use this as
an example of the defined areas
of kind of what they mean
so people start getting
a feeling for the centers now.
>>NELLENS: So you
have a defined root.
The anchoring in life is there.
There is a stability
and a grounding
in some ways in your structure.
And that grounding
in that structure
is connected to the
emotional center.
So you have emotional--
like you're here to rely on
your emotional intelligence.
>>REGINA: Very much so.
>>NELLENS: And our
emotional intelligence
is all about our
connectivity with the other.
You know, we feel connected.
And you have that
strength inside of you
to recognize when
something can kick off
with a feeling that connects.
So in order to do that,
in order to have sense
whether this is the
right energy there,
there is this root energy
necessary to basically
not fly off.
There's hey, wait, wait,
wait, wait, wait, wait.
I ain't feeling it yet.
Wait a second--
>>REGINA: That's what my
husband says all the time.
>>NELLENS: Just a second.
>>REGINA: You have
to feel everything.
>>NELLENS: You know, wait, wait.
Like, we're not really
connected yet here in order
to get into a shared
experience together.
Let's first talk about it.
Let's see.
Let's imagine it, how you
feel it, how you see it.
So that's your feeling
things through.
And it comes to a point that
your life's intelligence inside
you says, now I start to feel
it, it cannot be otherwise.
>>REGINA: That's
exactly right on.
I have to feel my
way there until it's
a green light on
feeling, it's complete.
I don't go.
And then I go, and
there's no question.
I'm not going to question it.
I assume it's coming
from a higher part.
OK, so that is very true.
What else is--
>>NELLENS: Well, then
you have a defined ajna
center, which is
mental consciousness,
and a throat center.
>>REGINA: So the
green one is the ajna.
>>NELLENS: The ajna.
It's mental consciousness.
It's where we conceptualize.
It's also the center,
in some way or another,
that gives us a mind.
>>REGINA: Mm-hmm.
>>NELLENS: So when we are
looking at your design,
for example, like
the ajna is defined,
you're specifically defined
through a life force that
is all about insights.
If those insights
start ruling your life,
if your mind rules
your life, there's
something in there
that says, like, ooh,
not nice for your
life force to be
under a dogmatic perspective.
So for your health and for your
well-being, there is no bad,
there's no good, there is
no right, there is no wrong.
It all depends on the
individual situation.
So a non dogmatic
stance in life is
something that liberates you.
In terms of
conceptualizing, you were
a person that emanates her
own perspective on things.
You have your own insights.
On whoever it is that
sits in front of you,
you have your own
insights on it.
And as a projector, you're
going to use that life force
to the benefit of the other.
Like, please, share
your insights.
And the wacko-er
they are, the more
it might be interesting to me.
>>REGINA: Wackier?
Yeah, that's true.
There's nothing too far out.
People say to me, you know,
this might sound a little-- no.
No, it won't.
[CHUCKLES]
You can't get too weird.
>>NELLENS: That's a
good sign for you.
It means that, inside,
there's freedom in there.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>NELLENS: Everything's
-- yeah, yeah, yeah.
>>REGINA: Yeah, no,
that's very true.
And so we also have--
and the rest are undefined.
And so let's talk about--
that's the throat center,
underneath the green, the ajna.
What's the one directly
underneath that?
>>NELLENS: The G center.
>>REGINA: And what
is the G center,
and what does that represent?
Because we're going to see these
illuminated in other people,
or defined.
>>NELLENS: In the energetic
architecture of a human being,
the G center represents our
capacity to have a self,
to have an identity.
>>REGINA: Oh, yeah.
>>NELLENS: Now, these identities
are constantly changing.
We don't know each
other that well.
I know you a little bit from
the internet or something.
To me, you are Regina
that I'm doing an--
but you don't have the same
identity for your husband.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>NELLENS: Neither did you have
the same identity for your mom,
or for your dad,
or for a colleague.
These identities are
constantly changing.
>>REGINA: When you're open in
particular, or for everyone?
>>NELLENS: Well, for everyone
they're always changing.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>NELLENS: OK, but there
are specific aspects
to have an identity.
There's people who are
always looking forward.
There's people who
are looking backwards.
There's people who are
designed to really bring
about the identity
to be in the body.
There's all different
kinds of frequencies there.
Now, at the core of who
we are as a human being,
we are love in movement.
That's basically at the core
of the cosmology of design
and of the G center.
It's where you find the big--
the cross of the vessel
of love and the cross
of the Sphinx, those
two incarnation
crosses that are represented
on Earth through the Sphinx
and basically the cup of love.
Those two aspects
are the core of what
it is to be a human being.
And when you have
it defined, you
have a specific frequency in
your way of being in life.
I had a very good
friend, for example,
and she's always looking to
give a creative and an inspiring
expression to her identity.
>>REGINA: And that's consistent.
>>NELLENS: And
that's consistent.
>>REGINA: Mm-hmm.
Whereas someone who
doesn't have it filled in,
who doesn't have it
defined, it changes--
>>NELLENS: When you hang
out with that person,
that creative aspect
comes out of you, too.
Because they're putting
their design in you.
>>REGINA: OK.
So when you're open,
you're open to the others.
>>NELLENS: Yeah.
>>REGINA: OK, so that
explains that field,
the G center defined and
undefined, to an extent.
OK, now looking just
off to the right of it,
from our perspective, you
see another undefined center.
Now, what is that
in all of this?
>>NELLENS: That's
the heart center.
or.
They call it the ego, but
from the Latin perspective, I.
That's energy in us to say,
I'm Dirk, and you're Regina,
and this is mine,
and that's yours.
So when you meet a kid at 2
years old that grabs your phone
and says, this is mine, try
to pull it out of his hands.
You're going to encounter
a contraction of muscles
that is saying, that's mine.
That's my will.
So this is a center that
has to do with willpower.
And there's 35% of humanity
that has defined willpower.
So they have an intelligence
in their heart center
that is there to stand up for
the community, for the other,
for all of us, or
for themselves.
And 65% of humanity
goes, with their mind,
to an open heart center.
So 65% of humanity is,
at some level or another,
we're actually
designed to become
wise of what it is to affirm
ourselves and just to be.
But when our mind goes
there, 65% of humanity
is caught up in trying to prove.
>>REGINA: OK, so we're
trying to prove ourselves,
and then with that open one.
OK, so now we'll go
through these quickly,
because oh my God, we've
been chatting so long,
and I want to get to a
couple really famous charts.
But I want us to know what
these centers are first.
OK, now down to the right--
this one's filled in,
the triangle in brown.
What's that center?
>>NELLENS: That's the
emotional consciousness.
>>REGINA: OK, and we
talked about that.
Now we talked about
the base, root center.
Now what's right up from
the root center, in white?
>>NELLENS: Above
the root center,
you're going to find the
sacral that 70% of humanity--
>>REGINA: Generators,
all of that.
OK, and then over to the left.
>>NELLENS: That's the spleen--
splenic center.
>>REGINA: And what's
that represent?
>>NELLENS: The splenic
center represents
existential consciousness.
So it's that stuff
that keeps us alive.
It's our intuition, our
instincts, and the taste.
So the best way to recognize
the intelligence of the spleen
is when you're sick or
when you're pregnant.
When you're pregnant, all your
senses are really highlighted.
So this is good for me,
that's not good for me.
There is a deep, deep, deep--
>>REGINA: Knowing.
>>NELLENS:
--intelligence in there
that is shared over
all life forces.
So you look at a
design of a plant,
or you look at the design of
an insect, or whatever mammal,
they all have a spleen.
They all have a splenic center.
>>REGINA: So that's
the one thing
that we all share in common.
>>NELLENS: Yes.
>>REGINA: OK, and we
didn't go to the very top,
above the ajna.
>>NELLENS: That's the
pressure in the head
to try to make
sense out of life.
So you get a kid,
3, 4 years old--
why, why, why,
where, how, this--
all this pressure in the
head that is trying to make
sense out of what this
human experience is.
>>REGINA: OK.
So now we see.
So you can kind of
see what mine's like.
Let's look at Amy Winehouse,
an incredible talent,
kind of tragic personal life.
There we go.
Now, what's up with Amy?
She was a manifesting generator.
>>NELLENS: She's a
manifesting generator.
And what's really
interesting about Amy,
she has all the life forces
that are defined, we call.
We say defined.
It's a terminology.
But they're just colored in.
Those channels are colored in.
The channels that are
colored in in her design,
they are all about
empowerment, and they're all
about creativity, and
they're all about melancholy.
And they're all about--
>>REGINA: Melancholy.
>>NELLENS: And they're
all about individuality.
>>REGINA: Ah, that was her life.
>>NELLENS: These frequencies,
they are very acoustic.
OK, so here you've
got a blues singer
in the end that gives
expression to all these
(HUSKILY) deep kind of feelings
that are sitting there.
And at the same time, there's
something underneath that says,
I'm self-empowered or not.
There is an expression of
self-empowerment or not.
Now, when you drag
that into the mind,
and you go to an open
spleen and an open heart,
you are looking at somebody that
is actually very, very insecure
about herself and about
her own artistic expression
at some level or another.
There's a lot of "I don't
know if I'm worth it."
And so this is somebody
that, in the end,
through all the melancholy
that went on in her life,
and this potential of being
either self-empowered or
disempowered and
depressed, there's
this possibility of
dragging all of that
through a mental approach into
a hole that it shouldn't be.
>>REGINA: Yeah, which
ultimately happened.
>>NELLENS: Yeah.
>>REGINA: Oh gosh,
if we can do--
do you want to do one more?
>>NELLENS: Yeah,
yeah, of course.
>>REGINA: Let's go
ahead and pull up--
should we do Frida Kahlo?
>>NELLENS: Yeah,
Frida Kahlo, yeah.
>>REGINA: Let's say pull her up.
And there she is.
And we only have about a
minute, about a minute left.
>>NELLENS: Yeah, Frida
Kahlo is all about emoting.
>>REGINA: Emoting.
>>NELLENS: Yes.
Frida Kahlo.
was like, here's a
new spirit in life.
Like I'm bringing you something
that you've never seen.
And she's a perfectionist.
So this is somebody that, in
that emotional expression,
gives you something that
has to do with, yeah,
but not like this,
and not like that,
and putting it here,
and putting it there.
And I'm actually
accentuating certain things
that make me love me more.
So she is very, very eccentric
in a way as a design.
And obviously she
is a manifestor.
She is here to have
impact on life.
In her life expression,
obviously, that impact
was huge.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
We're out of time.
To me, it's fascinating.
I have to say that I find human
design particularly useful--
useful to use as your
own understanding
of your own operating manual
how you interface with life.
So I'm just saying that
on a personal level.
I have a lot of respect for it.
So anyway, I really
appreciate the fact
you've chosen to take so
much time, A, to be here,
but also so many years
to really delve into it
and your deeper
understanding yourself,
and sharing that with us.
>>NELLENS: Thank you very much.
>>REGINA: Thank you so
much for being here.
>>NELLENS: Thanks for having me.
>>REGINA: You can go
to DirkNellens.com
to connect further
with Dirk's work.
He's created
teaching videos also
that you can very freely access.
Until next time, thank
you for joining us here
on "Open Minds."